Lakehouse
Byfleet, Surrey
July 22 1954

Dear Oliver,

I will gladly enlighten you and Prudence and Edward as much as I can,
but I fear it will be very little. Your father was a much greater
research student into the family annals than I; I remember that when my
father somehow came into possession of some journals, etc. of our
naturalist uncle, he easily persuaded me to hand them over to him, and
they ought to be in your family now. This uncle was a kind of minor
Darwin; I don’t think he went out with Darwin, but he went on a voyage
similar to the Beagle‘s to Australasian waters and made discoveries. I
remember my father trying to get the compilers of the Dictionary of
National Biography to include him, but they said they didn’t think him
distinguished enough. I don’t know whether it was he or my grandfather
who was Curator of the Bristol Museum; I saw his portrait in the Museum
there in 1940, before Bristol was bombed.
I can answer part of your question 6; my father had one brother
who went to Canada and raised a large family; we had at Carnanton a
photo of it — uncle, wife (maiden name unknown), and I should guess 5-6
children. Another brother went to Australia, and also had a family, and
one of his sons, who fought in the first war was wounded and sent to
Isleworth Hospital, where my sister Lucy was a V.A.D., and he afterwards
paid a visit to Carnanton, but I was not there. That is all I know about
them, except that I believe that they lived in Sydney. He had another
brother who was I think a rather unsuccessful stationer in Camberwell,
and used to borrow money; I saw him and his son once in Carnanton, and
didn’t like them, but one of his daughters married a man with a paper
mill near Hemel Hempstead who came to dine with us once and made a very
good impression. My father probably had two other brothers — I always
understood that he was the youngest of nine and I knew his three
sisters, Emma and Louise unmarried, who lived with us for some years,
and Mary, who married Smellie, a sugar planter in British Guiana and
had, I think six sons and three daughters and many grandchildren – I
know many of them and can give particulars if desired. That is about as
far as I can go. Other Stutchburys I knew, but cannot place exactly
where your grandfather’s brothers, whom you no doubt know about, Char1ey
and Sam; Charley was a lay reader, and I think ultimately got ordained,
Sam had a house at Alveston near Thornbury, Glos., where we once spent
the summer holidays; he married Maria $carlett and had three daughters,
and I believe it was their sister who was the first wife of Dr E.M.Grace
of Thornbury, a famous cricketer; I often stayed with them as a boy, and
was great friends with some of his ten children — one of them, Mina, Mrs
Willis, was at Susan’s wedding with her daughter, Joan, Mrs Scott. A
Wi1liam S., who lived at Croydon and married Louisa Burge, was my
father’s cousin and had a daughter, Florrie, now dead, and a son
Percy, still alive at Warlingham, with a daughter and a son who has done
rather well in the Army, I think.
As to the coat of arms, I don’t know where my father got it from, but he
believed in it, had two signet rings made, for himself and me, and
bookplates printed (specimen enclosed), before his conscience drove him
to ask the College of Heralds about it, and they said they had no record
of a grant of arms to the family — I remember some cynic telling us that
they would probably find it if you paid them a fee for investigating,
and I had a slight confirmation of that view when I asked them for
information about a literary character I was interested in and their
reply was that I must give them what was practically a blank cheque for
researches before they would look anything up. We gave up wearing our
signet rings after that, he from conscience and I when it got so tight
that I had to have it cut off my finger.
I haven’t seen Susan since her wedding; she went to Malta, where Daring
has been stationed, and has a house at 147A, Main St, St Julian’s,
Malta. Send the poor girl a picture postcard of the King’s Road; she is
suffering from slight nostalgia; she is also expecting to have twins
next month, verified by Xray, and not Siamese. 1’ll make a note of
September 1st for Laura‘s wedding, and will certainly get to it if my
infirmities permit. I should have answered your mother‘s letter to
express my admiration at Laura‘s career if I had been a nobler
character.
Yours very sincerely
Harold O. Stutchbury
P.S. I spend most of my time now with Anne (Mrs Savage) at 12 Turner Close,
NW11 – come & see me there if you can. My love & respects to your mother &
the Olenfer (?) -
